# Questions

curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Kojorising/CKA_Prep/main/alias.sh > alias.sh && source alias.sh && rm alias.sh

### 1) We have deployed a POD hosting an application. Inspect it. Wait for it to start.
<details> 
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# kg pods
    NAME       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    webapp-1   1/1     Running   0          39s
</details>

### 2) A user - USER5 - has expressed concerns accessing the application. Identify the cause of the issue.
Inspect the logs of the POD

<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    ==> Account locked due to too many failed attempts

root@controlplane:~# kl webapp-1 | sort | uniq | grep -i "warning\|failed\|unable\|error" 
[2021-09-22 21:10:52,427] WARNING in event-simulator: USER5 Failed to Login as the account is locked due to MANY FAILED ATTEMPTS.
[2021-09-22 21:10:55,434] WARNING in event-simulator: USER7 Order failed as the item is OUT OF STOCK.
[2021-09-22 21:10:57,470] WARNING in event-simulator: USER5 Failed to Login as the account is locked due to MANY FAILED ATTEMPTS.
[2021-09-22 21:11:02,476] WARNING in event-simulator: USER5 Failed to Login as the account is locked due to MANY FAILED ATTEMPTS.


</details>

### 3) We have deployed a new POD - webapp-2 - hosting an application. Inspect it. Wait for it to start.
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>


</details>

### 4) A user is reporting issues while trying to purchase an item. Identify the user and the cause of the issue.
Inspect the logs of the webapp in the POD
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

==> USER#)

root@controlplane:~# kl pod/webapp-2 -c=simple-webapp | sort | uniq | grep -i "warning\|failed\|unable\|error" 
[2021-09-22 21:14:20,567] WARNING in event-simulator: USER5 Failed to Login as the account is locked due to MANY FAILED ATTEMPTS.
[2021-09-22 21:14:23,571] WARNING in event-simulator: USER30 Order failed as the item is OUT OF STOCK.
[2021-09-22 21:14:25,573] WARNING in event-simulator: USER5 Failed to Login as the account is locked due to MANY FAILED ATTEMPTS.

</details>
