## Questions

NOTE:

For Custom KubeConfig Files, instead of catting the file, do
"k config view --kubeconfig=[CUSTOM-KUBE-CONFIG-PATH]"
==> Will re-map to have correct fields
root@controlplane:~# k config view --kubeconfig=/root/my-kube-config -oyaml | grep -ce "- context"
4
root@controlplane:~# cat /root/my-kube-config | grep -ce "- context"
0

### 1) Where is the default kubeconfig file located in the current environment?

Find the current home directory by looking at the HOME environment variable.

<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# ls -al /root/.kube
    total 20
    drwxr-xr-x 3 root root 4096 Jul 26 21:39 .
    drwx------ 1 root root 4096 Jul 26 21:39 ..
    drwxr-x--- 4 root root 4096 Jul 26 21:39 cache
    -rw------- 1 root root 5568 Jul 26 21:32 config
</details>


### 2) How many clusters are defined in the default kubeconfig file?

<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# cat /root/.kube/config | grep -e "- cluster"
    - cluster:
</details>

### 3) How many Users are defined in the default kubeconfig file?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# cat /root/.kube/config | grep -e "- name: "
    - name: kubernetes-admin
</details>

### 4) How many contexts are defined in the default kubeconfig file?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# cat /root/.kube/config | grep -e "- context"
    - context:
</details>

### 5) What is the user configured in the current context?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    From #3 - "kubernetes-admin"
</details>

### 6) What is the name of the cluster configured in the default kubeconfig file?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

        root@controlplane:~# k config view --minify | grep cluster
        clusters:
        - cluster:
            cluster: kubernetes
</details>

### 7) A new kubeconfig file named my-kube-config is created. It is placed in the /root directory. How many clusters are defined in that kubeconfig file?
<details>  
    <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~#  k config view --kubeconfig=/root/my-kube-config -oyaml | grep -ce "- context"
    4

    Answer - 4 clusters
    
    root@controlplane:~# cat my-kube-config | grep -e "cluster"
    clusters:
    cluster:
    cluster:
    cluster:
    - name: test-cluster-1
      cluster:
      cluster: development
      cluster: kubernetes-on-aws
      cluster: production
      cluster: test-cluster-1
</details>

### 8) How many contexts are configured in the my-kube-config file?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# cat my-kube-config | grep -E "  *"context:
        context:
        context:
        context:
        context:
    root@controlplane:~# cat my-kube-config | grep -Ec "  *"context:
    4
</details>

### 9) What user is configured in the research context?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    User: dev-user

    - name: research
      context:
        cluster: test-cluster-1
        user: dev-user

</details>

### 10) What is the name of the client-certificate file configured for the aws-user?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    - name: aws-user
      user:
          client-certificate: /etc/kubernetes/pki/users/aws-user/aws-user.crt
          client-key: /etc/kubernetes/pki/users/aws-user/aws-user.key

</details>

### 11) What is the current context set to in the my-kube-config file?
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

    root@controlplane:~# k config --kubeconfig=/root/my-kube-config current-context
    current-context: test-user@development
</details>

### 12) I would like to use the dev-user to access test-cluster-1. Set the current context to the right one so I can do that.
Once the right context is identified, use the kubectl config use-context command.

<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>


root@controlplane:~#  kubectl config --kubeconfig=/root/my-kube-config use-context research
    Switched to context "research".
</details>

### 13) We don't want to have to specify the kubeconfig file option on each command. Make the my-kube-config file the default kubeconfig.
<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>

</details>

### 14) With the current-context set to research, we are trying to access the cluster. However something seems to be wrong. Identify and fix the issue.
Try running the kubectl get pods command and look for the error. All users certificates are stored at /etc/kubernetes/pki/users.

<details>
  <summary markdown="span">Answer</summary>
        
    root@controlplane:~# k get pods
    error: unable to read client-cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/users/dev-user/developer-user.crt for dev-user due to open /etc/kubernetes/pki/users/dev-user/developer-user.crt: no such file or directory

    root@controlplane:~# ls -al /etc/kubernetes/pki/users/dev-user
    total 20
    drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 Jul 26 21:39 .
    drwxr-xr-x 5 root root 4096 Jul 26 21:39 ..
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1025 Jul 26 21:56 dev-user.crt
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  924 Jul 26 21:56 dev-user.csr
    -rw------- 1 root root 1675 Jul 26 21:56 dev-user.key

    NOTE - Change developer-user.crt to dev-user.crt
    
    root@controlplane:~# cat my-kube-config | sed "s/developer-user.crt/dev-user.crt/" > /root/.kube/config
    root@controlplane:~# k get pods
    No resources found in default namespace.

</details>
